This is Carol and welcome back to the coarsen tablet.
And today will be connecting our data source to Tablo so I'll bring up Tablo.
And this is the data source we're talking about office supplies so we downloaded it in the previous
lecture.
And normally throughout this course I won't be spending a lot of time on connecting 2.0 so because as
you'll see it will become kind of a quick thing for us.
We'll be doing it pretty much on the fly.
But today I thought I'd stop on it specifically because we did rush through it kind of last night and
I didn't have a chance to show you around the connection manager interface so let's go ahead and do
that as soon as you open Tablo here on the left you have a column called connect and it's got different
types of files that you can connect to.
So last time we did an Excel file.
But this time if you have downloaded the cxxviii file see SFE files actually considered a text file
because it's basically text delimited by commers.
That's why it's called history comma separate values.
So let's click on text file and now we will select our file here office supplies those GSV and we'll
open it up and right away we're redirected to the connection manager for this data source and let's
have a look around here.
So on the left here you've got a directory where the files are located and at the bottom here you've
got only one file currently.
That's because we only have one file in that directory.
Later on through the course you'll notice that when we have more files of the same type there will be
more.
They will all be listed here and you'll be able to select from them.
So here you've got a window where all the files you have selected are located.
So what does that mean.
Well that basically means that you can select many files so I can show example now I can drag another
one of these into here and right away something happens.
Tablo is trying to find a way to connect these two files and basically join them but we won't do that
now so just click click the red cross here and cancel that.
We will talk about joining data further down in the course.
But just bear in mind that your daughter that you're working with in Tablo doesn't all have to come
from one file it can come from many files or can come from many tabs in a file or it can come from different
types of files.
But once again we will talk about that later on at the bottom here you've got a preview of your file
so certain rows and columns of the files just so that you can have a look and see what you're dealing
with.
And in our case we do have the order date which correctly here has been identified as a date.
So you can see this I can that's a date you can then these are have been identified as text and these
have been identified as numbers.
And here are some more controls which we will talk about in further sections of this course and up top
here.
Also an important part of the connection manager alive or extract connection.
Once again we will have a separate lecture on that and we will understand what the difference is.
And when you would prefer to use an extract.
For now let's just leave it at life.
So everything looks good over here and now we can proceed onto the dashboard so we just have to go here
and we'll talk about all of this in the next section.
I just want to show you here that we have a daughter column.
And here we've got our data source so this little icon is an item that is used to illustrate a database
if we right click on it and click view data you will see our daughter just as we saw in the previous
window the columns can be rearranged here that that is how that happens.
That's that's totally normal.
But this is like a preview of the doors just as we had before.
So that's pretty much it.
That's as easy as it gets to connect to a source.
And before we finish up this lecture I just wanted to show you one more thing so if I want to connect
to more data sources I can always go here.
This is a new feature in Table 9 that you can click just go back to the data source connections over
here or you can just go data new data source and connect from here.
So if you want to connect to another data source you just click this icon over here.
But what we are looking at now is the types of data sources that Tablo can work with.
So as we discussed there's there there's a text file which includes GSV files.
There's access databases.
There's now statistical files so this is a new feature of tabel 9.
You are able to connect to statistical files and as you can see here these are SAS files SPSS files
and even our files.
For those of you who are interested in statistical modeling with our let's have a look what else we
have.
We've got Tablo server files.
We've got Microsoft Microsoft us Asgill server so we will have all of this in the course there's Maia's
Kjeld databases for online use and is Oracle and there's lots of other different types of servers here.
So if you are doing for instance Hadoop and big data analytics then you've got pivotal Greenplum databases
postgresql and even have some Sabahan here so as you can see Tablo guys are constantly introducing new
connection to connections to Tablo and trying to keep up to date with the technical trends.
So just even if you don't use any of this just good thing to have you know kind of in mind to know that
tabbouleh is not this too little become obsolete one day it's always changing and it's always adapting
to the market and what's happening.
All right so that's it for today's lecture.
We did connect very quickly we just had a lot of discussions about other things going forward in the
course connection's 2.0 will be much faster.
So there you go and I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then happy analyzing.